document the selection pattern (#195)
salsa-rs/salsa: book/src/common_patterns/selection.md

# Selection

The "selection" (or "firewall") pattern is when you have a query Qsel that reads from some
other Qbase and extracts some small bit of information from Qbase that it returns.
In particular, Qsel does not combine values from other queries. In some sense,
then, Qsel is redundant -- you could have just extracted the information
the information from Qbase yourself, and done without the salsa machinery. But
Qsel serves a role in that it limits the amount of re-execution that is required
when Qbase changes.

## Example: the base query

For example, imagine that you have a query `parse` that parses the input text of a request to return a

> only consume small parts of itheader and a body:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only consume small parts of it (a header and a body):
```

Author: man emacs was doing weird stuff like this whenever I tried to "reflow" paragraphs :( I thought I caught them all...

## More levels of selection

In fact, in our example we might consider introducing another level of selection.
Instead of having `content_type` directly access the results of `parse`, it might be better
to insert a selecting query that just extracts the header:

```rust,ignore
{{#include ../../../examples/selection/util2.rs:util2}} 
```

This will result in a dependency graph like so:

```text
request_text  -->  parse  -->  header -->  content_type  -->  (other queries)
``` 

The advantage of this is that changes that only effect the "body" of
only consume small parts of itthe request will
not require us to re-execute `content_type` at all. This would be particularly
valuable if there are a lot of dependent headers.

## A note on cloning and efficiency

In this example, we used common Rust types like `Vec` and `String`,
and we cloned them quite frequently. This will work just fine in Salsa,
but it may not be the most efficient choice. This is because each clone
is going to produce a deep copy of the result. As a simple fix, you
might convert your data structures to use `Arc` (e.g., `Arc<Vec<ParsedHeader>>`),
which makes cloning cheap. Or you might prefer to adopt persistent data

> structures such as those found in [the `im` crate](https://crates.io/crates/im).

Reviewer: I would maybe drop the advice about persistent data structure: they are useful to preserve old copies when you do mutation (ie, O(log n) update is the core property). Here, we don't do mutation, we only project, so `Arc<Vec>` seems to be a better choice.

Author: Seems fine. If only `Arc<Vec>` were less annoying. In Lark we introduced some specialized types for this. Someday maybe we'll have some companion util libraries for Salsa along those lines... or not. =)

Reviewer: Replying in zulip: https://salsa.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/145099-general/topic/selection.20pattern
